Surya Top Trek Overview
Trek Name:
Surya Top Trek
Days:
6
Adventure:
Trekking
Base Camp:
Natin Village
Season:
Summer | Autumn
Months:
May | June | October | November
Country:
India
Altitude:
12900 FT
Grade:
Moderate
Trail Type:
One way trail | Camping in various locations, starting and ending at the different point.
Food:
Meal While on trek & at Hotel/GuestHouse(Veg & Eggs)
Location:
Uttarakhand
Distance:
32 km
Rail Head:
Dehradun
Stay:
Camping(Twin Sharing) & Hotel/Guest House(Separate for male & female))
Airport:
Jolly Grant Airport, which is 28 km away from Dehradun
Trek again for free
Loved it? Do it again for free!!! At Trek The Himalayas, we understand that things don’t always go as planned. If you couldn’t complete your trek or just want to experience it once more , we’re giving you a wonderful opportunity – the chance to do the trek aga...

Read offer
Why is Surya Top a Must-Do Trek?
The Surya Top Trek takes you through stunning landscapes, where expansive meadows and snow-capped peaks blend seamlessly. The vistas feel like living paintings, untouched by noise, with only the serene embrace of nature surrounding you at every step.
During the Surya Top trek, you will be treated to stunning panoramic views of the Dayara meadows and Himalayan ranges. From the summit you will get a closer view of Bandarpoonch, Srikanth, Jaonli, Gangotri range, and Draupadi ka Danda 2.
The meadows are the best part of the trek, especially during the spring and early summer when they look like they've been carefully designed by nature, with vibrant wildflowers dotting the landscape.
Trekking through the trails of Surya top feels like stepping into a hidden world, with untouched beauty. It takes you through dense forests, lush meadows, and naturally beautiful alpine surroundings.
The trek introduces you to a rich diversity of flora and fauna, making it a treat for every nature lover. As you walk, you’re likely to spot Himalayan monal pheasants, and mountain goats.
Unlike many popular treks that see heavy traffic, Surya top retains a good level of peace with a lesser crowd, giving you time to disconnect from the outer world and spend time in nature, the new luxury.
This trek is a paradise for photographers with countless opportunities to capture naturally beautiful pictures of the lush meadows, dramatic cliffs, and sprawling valleys.
The trek with a mix of rugged trails, steep ascents, and gradual climb is perfect for every trekker looking to escape into the mystical sceneries.
Surya Top- the Mystical Meadows!
Imagine stepping into one of the paintings you created as a child, with huge mountains in the background, green meadows, very few houses and of course a stream flowing through. It is a scene that seems too perfect, almost unreal, right? Yet, that is exactly what the Surya Top trek feels like.

As you traverse this stunning landscape, you will find yourself surrounded by towering peaks and expansive meadows that seem to go on forever. It's a rare, almost magical experience that transports you back to the innocent joy of childhood dreams, full of nature away from the concrete of cities. The journey begins with a scenic drive to Barsu village and from here the trekking journey commences. The trek takes you through charming forests of Oak, Rhododendron, Maple and Cedar that slowly opens up into meadows. You will traverse through Siyari Bugyal and the famous Dayara Bugyal, the wide meadows will surely leave you stunned with its beauty. The trek takes you to Surya Top, which is the highest point during the trek, it offers you a 360 degrees view of the Himalayan ranges. During the trek, you will stay at beautiful campsites, surrounded by forests, offering you a splendid view of the mountains.

The Surya Trek offers an ever- evolving landscape, with blooming rhododendrons and other wildflowers turning the landscape vibrant during the spring, while during autumn the landscape turns into golden and amber tone with fall leaves. In winters, it creates a mesmerizing scenery with snowfall covering the trails and meadows. The dynamic shifts in color throughout the year make it a trek that feels like a living masterpiece.

Major Attractions of the Surya Top Trek
Surya Top: Surya Top is the major highlight of the trek and the highest point during the trek. The landscape here is dominated by vast stretches of green meadows dotted with very little yet a lot of flowers. On a clear day, you can catch a glimpse of distant snow- capped peaks of the Himalayan ranges. The air here is fresh and crisp, with every breath carrying the scent of pine and wildflowers, making you feel both alive and at peace.
Siyari Bugyal: A serene and beautiful meadow that adds charm to your trekking journey with its peaceful ambiance and views. It gives you a refreshing stay experience, with its wide meadow area covered in lush grass. The surrounding views are awe-inspiring, with panoramic vistas of distant snow-covered summits that stand tall against the blue sky. The tranquility of the place is profound, broken only by the sound of gushing winds and occasional bird calls.
Dayara Bugyal: A vast high-altitude meadow, Dayara Bugyal is a trekker's paradise that you'll encounter along the way. With sweeping views of peaks, it offers a serene escape into nature's lap. Being around Dayara Bugyal is a heart filling experience, as the vastness here makes you realise how much there is in the world to witness. As you stand in the midst of its expansive meadows, a sense of awe washes over you. It is a place where you would feel relaxed and your heart would find solace in the company of nature.
Panoramic views: As you stand at the highest point of the trek, the Surya top, you will get a 360 degrees panoramic view of the mountains and valleys around. On a clear day, some major peaks you could spot are Srikanth, Jaonli, Draupadi ka Danda 2 and Gangotri Range. The views of the mountains add more beauty to your journey and The mountain views amplify the beauty of your journey, inspiring a deeper sense of adventure. As you gaze at the towering peaks, they awaken you with the thought of climbing even higher and reaching for those peaks, enhancing your trekking experience.
Flora and fauna: The Surya Top trek is home to various kinds of flora and fauna, you will get to walk through Oak, Rhododendron, and Cedar forest. You might also spot Himalayan Monal, the State bird of Uttarakhand, and various varieties of birds, animals and Butterflies.
In essence, the Surya Top trek isn’t just a physical challenge, but also a journey of self-discovery amid the mountains. As you trek through its winding paths, you are not only exposed to stunning landscapes but also to moments of introspection and as you stand amid the scenic landscapes, it’s hard not to feel a deep sense of awe and gratitude for being a part of such a serene, timeless scene. The sheer beauty of the surroundings encourages you to pause and reflect, creating a meditative atmosphere that feels like you’re walking through an abstract painting, where the journey itself becomes part of the art.

Surya Top Trek Itinerary
Quick
Detailed
Trek Graph
Food At TTH
Day 1
Dehradun to Natin Village
Altitude Natin: 2,300 m / 7,600 Ft.
Drive Distance: 200 km | 7-8 hrs
Cloakroom facilities is available at Basecamp Natin Village
Day 2
Drive to Barsu and Trek to Pichkiya
Altitude
Barsu: 2300 m / 7400 ft.
Pichkiya: 2,900 m / 9,500 ft
Drive Distance: 17 km | 1 hour
Trek Distance: 5 km | 5-6 hrs
Day 3
Pichkiya to Siyari Bugyal
Altitude
Pichkiya: 2,900 m / 9,500 ft
Siyari Bugyal: 3,500 m / 11,600 ft
Trek Distance: 6 km | 5-6 hrs
Day 4
Siyari Bugyal to Devkund via Surya Top
Altitudes:
Siyari Bugyal: 3,500 m / 11,600 ft
Surya Top: 3,900 m / 12,900 ft
Devkund: 3,500 m / 11,600 ft
Trek Distance: 9 km | 9-10 hrs
Day 5
Devkund to Chilapada
Altitude
Devkund: 3,500 m / 11600 ft.
Chilapada: 3,300 m / 10,800 ft
Trek Distance: 4-5 km | 4-5 hrs
Day 6
Trek from Chilapada to Natin and Drive to Dehradun
Altitude:
Chilapada: 3,300 m / 10,800 ft.
Natin: 2,300 m / 7,600 ft.
Trek Distance: 6-7 km | 5-6 hrs.
Drive Distance: 200 km | 7-8 hrs.
Altitude Loss: 3,200 ft.
Drive Distance: 200 km | 7-8 hrs
Note:
Keep a buffer day in your travel plan.
If buffer day is not used in the travel then it can be used to Explore Dehradun.
Read the article Things to do in Dehradun.
Distance, Altitude, and Trekking hours are approximate and rounded off.
Keep the original and copy of ID proof handy.
Come one day early if planning to come by plane.
Eligiblity for Surya Top Trek
Age Requirement:
Minimum 12 years
First-timers are welcome, though prior trekking experience is preferred. Good fitness is a must.
Fitness Criteria:
The Trekker should have sufficient stamina to cover 5 km of distance by jogging in 33 minutes without stress or 10 km of distance in 75 minutes without stress
If the trekker prefers cycling he/she should be able to cycle 15 km of distance in 45 minutes.
Preparation Chart View Download
If the trekker wants to carry a backpack then he/she should be able to carry a 10-12 kg backpack. If opt Off-load option then the trekker should be able to carry 3-5 kg backpack.
If a trekker's BMI is more or less than the normal range (18-28), please consult our Trek Coordinator before booking.
Fitness Required
Calculate Your Bmi
Weight
84
Kilo (KG)
Height
184
Centimeters (CM)
Calculate
Your BMI value is
--
Enter your weight and height to check if you’re fit for the trek.

BMI Range
Category
Less than 16.5
Severely Underweight
16.5 - 18.5
Underweight
18.5 - 25
Normal
25 - 30
Overweight
Health and Awareness
Pulse rate at rest must be in between (60 to 100 beats per minute).
Blood Pressure Reading must be in between (DIASTOLIC 75 – 85, SYSTOLIC 100 - 130 mm Hg).
Respiratory rate at rest must be in between (12 to 20 breaths per minute).
Should not have Liver and kidney issues.
Should not have Diabetes Mellitus, Bronchial Asthma, Heart problems, Hypertension, etc.
No pacemaker implant.
People with Sinus issues, Epilepsy please contact to trek coordinator before booking the trek.
If your BMI is not normal, Please contact our Trek coordinator before Trek booking.
Medical & Disclaimer Form (Mandatory Documents) Click here to download Medical & Disclaimer Form

Must Watch Videos of Surya Top Trek – Trek Guide & Virtual Tour

Trek Video thumbnail
Trek Video

Virtual Tour thumbnail
Virtual Tour
How to reach —Surya Top Trek Maps
How to Reach Dehradun
How to Reach Dehradun
You’ll have to arrive in Dehradun, the capital of Uttarakhand. This is the main pickup point for this trek by TTH, from where the trek journey begins.

Options to Reach Dehradun

There are many ways to reach Dehradun, but the most convenient option is to arrive directly at the Dehradun bus station, airport, or railway station, depending on your preference.

Arrival by Bus
If you are taking a bus, it is highly convenient to catch a direct overnight bus from Delhi.

From Delhi: Reach the ISBT Kashmiri Gate in Delhi and take a direct Volvo or sleeper bus to ISBT Dehradun, which takes around 5 to 6 hours to reach via the Delhi-Dehradun Expressway.
(We highly recommend choosing government Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) buses over private ones, as they are generally more reliable. Ensure you reach Dehradun by 6:00 AM on the pickup day).

Arrival by Air
For international and domestic trekkers opting for a flight, the most preferred option is to fly into Jolly Grant Airport (Dehradun Airport).

Location	Travelling Guide / Travel Instruction
DELHI	The Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, offers multiple daily direct flights to Jolly Grant Airport (Dehradun). Major airlines include IndiGo, Alliance Air, and Air India.
OUTSTATION (Mumbai/Blr/Hyd/Pune)	You can book a direct or connecting flight to Dehradun Airport. If direct flights are unavailable, flying via Delhi is the best route.

From Dehradun Airport to the Pickup Point: The distance between Jolly Grant Airport and Dehradun city center is around 25-30 km. After arriving, you can easily take a public bus or book a private cab to reach the TTH pickup point.

Note: If you are arriving by air, it is highly recommended to reach Dehradun one day in advance.

Arrival by Train
Dehradun is well-connected by rail via the Dehradun Railway Station (DDN).

Direct Trains: High-speed trains like the Dehradun Shatabdi Express, Vande Bharat Express, and Mussoorie Express run daily from New Delhi. Several other cities, including Kolkata (Howrah), Varanasi, Mumbai, and others, have direct train services to Dehradun. If you’re travelling from any of these routes, you can take a direct train to Dehradun.
To the pickup point: If your train terminates here, you can take a short auto-rickshaw or local cab ride directly to the pickup point. To know more about the train schedules, you can visit the IRCTC website.
Pick Up Information
Trekkers who wish to opt for the pickup and drop-off service can select this option during the booking process under the "View Add-ons" section.
Trekkers need to assemble at Prince Chowk, Dehradun, at 6:00 AM for the Trek.
If you have opted for TTH’s pickup and drop-off service, your travel from the Dehradun assembly point to the mountain base camp will be completely managed by TTH.
Drop-Off Information
The designated drop-off point is Prince Chowk, Dehradun.
The drop-off is scheduled on the final day between 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM. We firmly advise all trekkers to plan their onward travel arrangements (trains or flights) after 8:00 PM.
We strongly recommend keeping a buffer day in your travel plan. Mountain roads in the Uttarkashi region are prone to sudden landslides and delays. If everything goes as planned, you can use that buffer day to explore Dehradun or nearby Mussoorie.
As part of our transport service, TTH offers comfortable transportation modes such as Tempo Travelers, Boleros, or equivalent vehicles.
If you wish to upgrade your private mode of transportation, you can reach out to your designated trek coordinator for further assistance.
It's highly advisable to keep a buffer day in your travel plan. If the buffer day is not needed, it can be used to explore Dehradun/Mussoorie/Rishikesh.
( If you prefer to travel independently to Base camp and don't want to take TTH's pick-up service, you can either take a government bus or book a private cab from Dehradun. Your trek coordinator will provide guidance on how to arrange for the bus or cab booking. )

Surya Top Trek Cost Terms – Inclusions & Exclusions
Inclusion
Exclusion
Inclusions
Accommodation (as per the itinerary):

Guesthouse Day 1 & Day 6 (Triple/Quad Sharing).
Camping Day 2 to Day 5 (Twin sharing).
2. Meals (Veg + Egg):

All meals from Day 1 Dinner to Day 5 Dinner.
3. Transportation (as per the itinerary):

Dehradun to Natin village and return (If booked through TTH, available upon booking in add-ons).
4. Support:

1 Versatile base camp manager: handles communication and deploys extra manpower in emergencies.
1 Mountaineering & First aid qualified professional expedition Leader.
1 Experienced high-altitude chef.
Local experienced guides (Number of guides depending on the group size).
Enough support staff.
5. Trek equipment:

Sleeping bag, Sleeping liners (if required), mattresses, and Utensils.
3 men all season trekker tent (twin sharing), Kitchen & Dining tent, Toilet tent.
Camping stool, Walkie talkie.
Ropes, Helmet, Ice axe, Harness, Gaiters & microspikes (if required).
6. First aid

Medical kit, Stretcher, Oxygen cylinder, Blood pressure monitor, Oximeter, Stethoscope.
7. Cloakroom service at base camp.
8. Mules/porters to carry the central luggage.
9. All necessary permits and entry fees, up to the amount charged for Indians.
10. Services from Natin village to Natin village. 
11. Insurance is included only for Indian trekkers.
12. Trek completion certificate from TTH.

Surya Top Trek Essentials – Complete Packing List
Personal Equipment
Equipment provided by TTH
Trek Essentials Guide :

View Trek Essentials PDF
Basic gear
Clothes
Head gears
Foot gears
Utilities
Backpack with rain cover
(50 - 60 ltr) with comfortable shoulder straps
Day pack with rain cover
20 - 30 ltr (If off-load opted)
Walking stick
Advisable (At least one)
Water Bottle / Hydration pack
2 bottles of one liter each, People who use hydration pack 1 hydration pack and 1 bottle of one liter.
Small size tiffin/lunch box
1 Nos
Snacks
Energy bars, dry fruits, electral/ors
Personal Medical Kit
Consult your doctor
Cancellation Terms
To request a cancellation, please email us at info@trekthehimalayas.com using your registered email ID.

Cancellations prior to 25 days from the start of the Trip

Refund Options

5% deduction of trek fee
100% trek fee cash voucher for any trip till one year
Transfer your trek (any trek, any date) to your friend
Cancellation between 24 days and 15 days to the start of the Trip

Refund Options

30% deduction of trek fee
100% trek fee cash voucher for same trip till one year
85% trek fee cash voucher for any trip till one year
Transfer your trek (same trek, any date) to your friend
Cancellation between 14 days and 10 days to the start of the Trip

Refund Options

50% deduction of trek fee
80% trek fee cash voucher for same trip till one year
70% trek fee cash voucher for any trip till one year
Book the same trek, in the same season, with any other batch
Transfer your trek (same trek, any date) to your friend
Cancellation less than 9 days to the start of the trek.

Refund Options

No cash refund
20% trek fee cash voucher for the same trip till one year
10% trek fee cash voucher for any trip till one year
Transfer your trek (same trek, same date) to your friend
To reschedule a trek (same trek only), a 30 % rescheduling fee of the trek cost will apply.
Cancellation Policy (Emergency Cases):

In case of a death in the immediate family (parents, siblings, spouse, children) or if the trekker is hospitalized (min. 48 hours) or suffers a fracture (leg/arm) within a week before the trek, even if canceled a day before:

90% trek fee refund in cash & 10% as a voucher (valid for 1 year, for any India trek).

Valid documents required. We’re here to support you during tough times.

Note:

Change of trek batch is dependent on the availability of seats in the batch
In case of transferring a trek to a friend, he/she should satisfy all the mandatory requirements put forward by TTH
TTH holds the right to change/cancel the policies, without prior notice
Booking and Payments

The Participant is responsible for verifying the accuracy of all details, including Trip dates and personal documentation, at the time of booking.
Payments must be made in accordance with the timelines and instructions provided by TTH. Late payments may result in cancellation of booking without refund.
In the event of a cash refund, only the portion of the payment made in cash shall be eligible for refund in cash. Any booking made using voucher, discounts, promotional codes, or through any non-cash mode of payment shall not be eligible for a cash refund under any circumstances.
Refunds, if applicable, shall be processed within 15–30 working days of confirmation.
All add-on bookings are subject to the respective add-on cancellation policy, and refunds will be processed accordingly.
Voucher Terms
This is a non-transferable voucher
The voucher cannot be merged with any other offer of Trek The Himalayas
The voucher is valid for Trek booked directly with Trek The Himalayas in India
To avail the voucher please use your register phone number or e-mail id
All the other Terms of booking a trek with Trek The Himalayas are applicable to the voucher
Itinerary and Modifications

TTH reserves the right to modify, shorten, or cancel any part of the Trip due to transportation delays, weather, health emergencies, or other unforeseen circumstances including Force Majeure.
Cancellations and Refunds

No refunds or vouchers, partial or otherwise, shall be provided for voluntary withdrawal, non-utilisation of services, or removal from the Trip.
If TTH cancels the Trip before arrival at the designated pick-up point due to unforeseen circumstances or Force Majeure, the Participant may choose from:
An alternate Trip/date.
A credit voucher valid for one (1) year.
Transfer to another Trip, with cost differences payable by the Participant.
If the Trip is abandoned post-arrival at the designated pick-up point, no cash refund or voucher shall be issued. The Trek Again Policy may apply at TTH’s discretion.
TTH shall not be liable for any associated travel costs such as flights, accommodation, or visa fees.
Force Majeure

Events beyond its control including but not limited to earthquakes, landslides, strikes, curfews, war, pandemic, government restrictions, heavy rainfall or snowfall, windstorms, road blockages, trail disruption, or withdrawal of permits, TTH shall not be held liable for any cancellation, delay, or service modification caused by Force Majeure. 
Government Employees




Kids Guidelines
Become a Trek Ambassador with Trek The Himalayas and trek for FREE!




































Important Links
Stargazing With Telescopes
Surya Top Trek Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
red line

What is the Surya Top Trek distance?
▼


What is the Surya Top Trek difficulty level?
▼


What is the Surya Top height?
▼


What peaks are visible during the Surya Top trek?
▼


What are the major attractions of the Surya Top Trek?
▼


